First, I’m surprised about the low number of target items in studies, with the majority of them having less than 10 target items (p. 16). I’m skeptical that the small number of target items can really get at “true” cross-linguistic influence, as opposed to performance mismatch. I’m thinking of Joseph Casillas’ study “Interlingual interactions elicit performance mismatches not ‘compromise’ categories” (2021). Although his study focuses on EN-ES adult bilingual coronal stop production, I think it’s relevant: with such few target items, how do we know we’re really getting at genuine cross-linguistic influence, as opposed to just performance mismatch? That is, we know that bilinguals constantly activate both of their grammars when producing speech. If they have two or more options available to them, they may just be choosing the “wrong option” for the context due to processing difficulties, task difficulties, or just the strangeness/unnaturalness of a given task.
Something that this paper really honed in on for me was the difference between comparing child bilingual’s “two grammars” to their child monolingual counterparts vs adult monolinguals. Although I do think that comparing a bilingual’s grammar, child or not, to an adult monolingual’s is valid depending on the research question, as we discussed in class, I don’t think that they are fully getting at their research question here. Specifically, the example they give about Persian and English compound noun headedness: if English monolingual children do produce left-headed compounds at times, ungrammatical in adult monolingual English grammars, then I think it’s not intuitive or interesting to compare English-Persian bilingual children to adults. Given that we don’t know the rest of the studies involved and if there’s more cases like this, I’m skeptical about getting the full picture here with their results.
I loved the nuance that we get about language dominance and the societal language: language dominance predicts strength of the cross-linguistic influence, not the presence (p. 23). Something that would be interesting to me is determining if “percentages of dominance” correspond to specific areas of cross-linguistic influence. For example, Spanish-English bilinguals of varying dominance levels (i.e. some fake categories: high EN dom, mid-high EN dom, mid EN dom, “balanced”) have specific areas of their grammar associated with cross-linguistic influence. If, for example, high EN doms have cross-linguistic influence across the board; mid-high EN dom have less cross-linguistic influence in something specific across the majority of the population, like not producing prepositions at the end of a sentence (“¿Quién estás hablando con?”); etc. So we’d be able to make entailment predictions like “If a bilingual does not produce X, then they will not produce Y”.
