Topic: Primary and secondary prosodic cues to interrogation.
Population: L1 English L2 Spanish learners (20; 5 years of experience, no proficiency measures or info about their exposure to dialects) & L1 Spanish (13 Peninsular; 14 Argentinian).
Spanish varieties: Central Peninsular (rise H%), Argentinian (circumflex HL%).
Task: FCT. Listened to stimulus sentence, decided if it was a question or not.
Stimuli: 27 sentences total.
Peninsular: 6 declaratives, 6 interrogatives, 12 "manipulated" sentences.
Argentinian: 3 interrogatives, 6 "manipulated" interrogatives.
Manipulations: Resynthesized.
Peninsular:
Declarative base: (1a) rise (1b) flat
Interrogative base: (1c) falling (1d) baseline
Argentinian:
Interrogative base: (2a) remove peak and maintain baseline (2b) remove peak and falling
Should email Izaro and ask why they decided to use these manipulations and why they decided to use an Argentinian speaker, with HL%, instead of another speak that has no peak in the nuclear configuration if they're interested solely in comparing falling/rising questions. Why did they not include original declaratives from the Argentinian speaker?
Results:
PS sentences: L1 & L2 speakers differed in all sentence types except for unmanipulated declaratives. If the sentence had a final boundary that was flat or falling (1b, 1c, 1d), more likely than L1 speakers to say it's not a question. Even if the boundary tone is high, still less likely than L1 to say it's a question.
AS sentences: L1 & L2 speakers performed differently for all sentence types. AS performed around chance level for manipulated sentence (2a). L2 speakers called the low (2b) a statement, but the baseline a question (2a). So they're not ONLY attending to the boundary tone. The original interrogative was perceived as a question.
Discussion: L2 speakers relied on universal tendencies to interrogation (what about the original AS declarative & 2a?).
Main cue is high tone at the end of utterance, but not necessarily the boundary tone.
Contradicts Trimble (2013), who found L2 Spanish had a lot of trouble with Venezuelan interrogative circumflex. Attributes this to relative height of last accentual peak. What about exposure?
